---
layout: post
title: growing up in an open source world
---

A recent twitter conversation led me to a very different place than I expected.
It all started with this tweet

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"><p>DID YOU KNOW: The two healthiest engineering organizations I’ve worked for rejected code style guides entirely?</p>&mdash; C J Silverio (@ceejbot) <a href="https://twitter.com/ceejbot/status/568065466754674688">February 18, 2015</a></blockquote> <script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

First, a history lesson. My software career began in enterprise, the kind of
place where your first week or so includes poring over style guides and best
practices for the code base which you will be expected to follow. This is the
world where failure to follow said guides means that your code is not high
enough “quality” (that’s in quotes because it’s bullshit) to be pulled into the
trunk.

Since leaving that world, I’ve spent time researching the Dreyfus model of
skill acquisition which taught me that the novice needs rules to be productive
while the expert works more on intuition where rules will impede productivity.
With that in mind, it makes sense to have some kind of style guide for the
junior developers.

### I’ve been living a lie

I’ve been working with junior developers for many years in both the enterprise
world and at Modulus and part of working with them is helping them become
“great” engineers. In the past, that meant that they learn about coding style,
patterns, and architecting solutions to problems, but there was always this
strange emphasis on style that I picked up in enterprise.

The conversation from today made me realize that what I’m actually doing is
limiting both their creativity and their flexibility.

So what does this have to do with open source?

One of the best parts of the Node and JavaScript ecosystem is the openness. The
ability and encouragement to contribute to what we are all using is the primary
reason for the growth of Node and its adoption. This message sums up how this
relates to open source

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"><p><a href="https://twitter.com/brianleroux">@brianleroux</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/dscape">@dscape</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/fiveisprime">@fiveisprime</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/olizilla">@olizilla</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/ceejbot">@ceejbot</a> new developers who are too tied to a code style don&#39;t contribute to other projects well</p>&mdash; Mikeal Rogers (@mikeal) <a href="https://twitter.com/mikeal/status/568095459547299840">February 18, 2015</a></blockquote> <script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

It's true. I've run into it myself with "damn, this project uses 4 space tabs,
gross" which is an incredibly detrimental (and shitty in general) attitude to
have. Why would anybody ever want to pass that on to others?

Also included in the thread was [this
link](https://github.com/asbjornenge/javascript-style) to Asbjorn Enge's
JavaScript style guide which, as it turns out, is perfect for both personal and
professional growth.

### Moving forward

Let's focus on growing and shipping software by creating healthy engineering
environments. "Burn the style guide" so to speak and let people be people and
learn what works best for them in what situations. Teach flexibility and how to
be a good open source contributor.

P.S. I'm writing this down so that I stick to it and thanks CJ et al. for
helping me get here.
